FDA contacted the patient for follow-up after she contacted Drug Information to disclose information regarding an adverse event related to domperidone. Domperidone 20 mg 3-4 times per day was prescribed in August 2014 for lactation. The patient noted that her infant was 3 months old when she started using domperidone. The recommendation for use came from a lactation consultant at Mercy General Hospital/Mercy Medical Group, and was then prescribed by the patient's OB/GYN. The patient was receiving monthly prescriptions and was getting them filled at Innovative Compounding Pharmacy. Patient contacted the OB/GYN Office in late December/early January requesting another prescription and was told by the Nurse Practitioner that they planned on weaning her off of the domperidone because the physicians needed to research the long-term side effects of domperidone before further prescribing it. About 3 weeks-1 month later (mid-January 2015), patient developed palpations ("butterflies in my chest") and felt "very tired." She didn't think much of symptoms and attributed them to being tired and having a new baby, so she continued domperidone and tried to get more sleep. Symptoms of malaise, palpitation, "chest pain", syncope-like feelings continued, so patient decided to research domperidone online. After finding out that QT prolongation and sudden death are possibly associated with domperidone (and that the symptoms she was having could be the result of QT prolongation), and that it is not approved in the US, she stopped taking the medication and contacted her OB/GYN office. The office told her that she was incorrect and that domperidone is allowed to be prescribed in the US and that lactation was just an off-label use. Symptoms resolved after domperidone was stopped. Patient also requested an EKG (after stopping domperidone) which was normal. She also wanted to make the FDA aware that domperidone use for lactation is being heavily advertised as a safe method to provide breast milk within the Mercy General Hospital/Mercy Medical Group. She also stated that in women that adopt or have a surrogate carrier, domperidone is being started 6 months before those women even have the infant with them and that they are then continuing the domperidone. Pharmacy, provider, and practice information was provided.
This spontaneous report as received from Health Canada (000633506 and 000641862) which was initially reported by a Health Care Professional refers to a 54 year old female patient.
Medical history and concurrent conditions were not provided.

On an unknown date, the patient started therapy with desloratadine(AERIUS)tablet, oral, 5.0 mg, 1 every 1 day and used for unknown indication.  Other suspect therapies included clopidogrel tablet, 75 mg 1 every 1 day  (route and indication unknown), tolterodine tartrate(DETROL LA)sustained release capsule, 40mg, 1 every 1 day (route and indication unknown), domperidone(manufacturer unknown)tablet, 10mg, 2 every 1 day (route and indication unknown), aspirin(ECOTRIN)tablet, 1DF, 1 every 1 day (route and indication unknown), imipramine tablet, 25mg, 2 every 1 day (route and indication unknown), trandolapril(MAVIK)strength: 2mg, capsule, 2.0 mg, 1 every 1 day (route and indication unknown), pantoprazole 40mg, 1 every 1 day (route and indication unknown), rosuvastatin tablet, 20mg, 1 every 1 day, (route and indication unknown), ustekinumab(STELARA)solution subcutaneous, (dose, route and indication unknown), sucralfate(SULCRATE)1000mg, 2 every 1 day (route and indication unknown), atenolol tablet, 50mg, 1 every 1 day, (route and indication unknown), clarithromycin 100mg, 1 every 1 day (route and indication unknown), ciclesonide(ALVESCO)aerosol, 4000 mcg (route and indication unknown, ezetimibe(EZETROL)tablet, 10mg, 1 every 1 day (route and indication unknown) and montelukast sodium(manufacturer unknown) dose, route, frequency and indication unknown, also reported as concomitant therapy.

On an unknown date, the patient experienced hallucination, auditory, psychotic disorder and paranoia.

The action taken with suspect products was unknown.
The outcome of hallucination, auditory, psychotic disorder and paranoia was recovered on an unspecified date.

Relatedness between the suspect therapies and the events: hallucination, auditory, psychotic disorder and paranoia was not reported.

The agency considered the events to be medically significant.

Additional information is not expected due to agency confidentiality clause.
This spontaneous report from a patient concerns a 71-year-old Caucasian female from the United States: Local ID: 1-1878275180.

The patient's weight was 160 pounds and height was 67.5 inches.  Concurrent conditions included abdominal bloating, abdominal gas, abdominal pain, allergy to trees, belching (abdominal), diabetic paresis (coded as diabetic gastroparesis), no alcohol use, no smoking, and type 2 diabetes.  Other medical history included no history of drug abuse/illicit drug use.  The patient had previously experienced allergy when taking mycins (not otherwise specified or NOS) (antibacterials for systemic use) and sulfa (sulfacetamide sodium).  The patient was treated with canagliflozin (tablet, oral, batch unknown) 300 mg once a day, initiated on 06-AUG-2014, for type 2 diabetes and domperidone (unspecified, batch unknown) dose and frequency unspecified, initiated on an unspecified date, for diabetic gastroparesis.  Concomitant medications were not reported.  The patient was not initially prescribed 100 mg dose of canagliflozin.  On 06-AUG-2014, the patient experienced "worsening of pre-existing abdominal belching" (coded as increased belching), "worsening of pre-existing abdominal pain" (coded as worsening of abdominal pain), "worsening of pre-existing abdominal gassiness" (coded as very gaseous), and "worsening of pre-existing abdominal bloating" (coded as worsening of bloating).  In AUG-2014, the patient contacted her physician about the events and was prescribed an increased dosage of domperidone.  The patient reported the increased dose of domperidone had not relieved her worsening symptoms.  On 13-AUG-2014, the patient experienced not feeling well today.  No laboratory findings were provided.  The dose of domperidone was increased and the dose of canagliflozin was not changed.  The patient had not recovered from increased belching, worsening of abdominal pain, very gaseous, worsening of bloating, and not feeling well today.

This report was identified by the call center as a product quality complaint:  PQMS reference number 10000228235.

This report was not serious.
CC: JR is a 47 year old white male who is admitted to the hospital for the first time for
fainting this afternoon.
HPI:
Source: JR and his wife
JR and his wife were attending an outdoor company picnic earlier this afternoon. As the
patient was eating a BBQ lunch and drinking beer (three in total); he began to feel that his
surroundings were spinning. He reports that he felt as if he were about to pass out so he
put his head down on the table and lost consciousness. A few minutes later; he regained
consciousness and was surrounded by family and friends trying to cool him off with ice
packs. The patient said that after fainting; he felt no pain but did experience a soreness in
the center of his chest and felt fatigued and “worn out.” He also reported feeling like he
“wasn’t getting enough air.” When bystanders attempted to elevate his legs; it aggravated
the patient’s chronic lower back pain and his back and legs hurt. The patient was
transported to the VA emergency room via ambulance. He was given fluids by paramedics
and said that this made him feel slightly better. Currently; the patient continues to feel
weak and “out of it.” He also reports a continuing occasional strange feeling in his chest
which he describes as a “dull pressure.” The patient’s PMH is not significant for cardiac or
pulmonary problems. He said that he has not fainted in the past; but did report feeling weak
and slightly dizzy when attempting to move a boat a few months ago. This morning; the
patient awoke with a headache and tool Tylenol. He had one cup of coffee.
PMH:
1. Secondary Squamous Cell Carcinoma in the neck – The patient was diagnosed in May of
1993 after discovering a mass on his neck. The enlarged lymph nodes was biopsied. The
patient underwent a radical neck resection with reconstructive surgery of the neck and jaw
and radiation. His physicians have classified him as being in remission for the past six years.
2. Hypothyroidism – Diagnosed in 1995 after radiation therapy; managed with medication.
3. Lower back pain and leg pain – The patient reports two herniated discs in the lumbar
spine that cause him nearly constant pain since being hit by a car while driving a motorcycle
on 08/19/1982. The accident also resulted in a shattered tibia and fibula in the left side. His
left leg is shorter than the right and over time this has resulted in some pelvic deformities.
4. Migraines – With auras and occasional nausea and vomiting. The patient experienced
some migraines as a child. He was symptom free from age 16 to 40. Currently; he
experiences a headache approximately every six months. The headaches are managed with
several medications. In the past few months; the patient was admitted to the hospital for a
migraine headache unresponsive to medication.
5. Kidney stones – Patient has had 3-4 kidney stones over the past few years. All of them
were passed out. His last kidney stone was in December; 2004. The one prior to that was in
2001.
6. Diverticulitis – Diagnosed in 2005; patient attempts to control by avoiding certain foods
(strawberries; corn kernels; etc.).
7. BPH – Diagnosed in December 2005; no problems with urination.
PSH:
Reconstructive neck surgery in 1993.
Medications:
Active Outpatient Medications (including Supplies):
Issue Date
Status Last Fill
Active Outpatient Medications Refills Expiration
=========================================================
================
1) ACETAMINOPHEN 325/BUTAL 50/CAFF 40MG TAB ACTIVE Issu:06-23-06
Qty: 90 for 30 days Sig: TAKE 1 TO 2 Refills: 3 Last:06-23-06
TABLETS BY MOUTH EVERY 6 HOURS AS Expr:06-24-07
NEEDED FOR HEADACHE; DO NOT EXCEED 6
TABLETS IN 24 HOURS
2) DIAZEPAM 5MG TAB Qty: 120 for 30 days ACTIVE Issu:05-08-06
Sig: TAKE ONE TABLET BY MOUTH FOUR Refills: 0 Last:07-12-06
TIMES A DAY FOR ANXIETY Expr:11-08-06
3) DIVALPROEX 250MG EC(DELAYED RELEASE) TAB ACTIVE Issu:06-23-06
Qty: 180 for 30 days Sig: TAKE THREE Refills: 5 Last:06-23-06
TABLETS BY MOUTH TWICE A DAY FOR Expr:06-24-07
MIGRAINES ** DOSE CHANGED
4) LEVOTHYROXINE NA (SYNTHROID) 0.125MG TAB ACTIVE Issu:01-31-06
Qty: 90 for 90 days Sig: TAKE ONE Refills: 2 Last:04-25-06
TABLET BY MOUTH ONE TIME EACH DAY FOR Expr:02-01-07
THYROID
5) PROMETHAZINE HCL 25MG TAB Qty: 21 for 7 ACTIVE Issu:06-19-06
days Sig: TAKE ONE TABLET BY MOUTH Refills: 0 Last:06-19-06
THREE TIMES A DAY FOR NAUSEA OR Expr:07-19-06
VOMITING
6) TRAMADOL HCL 50MG TAB Qty: 57 for 30 ACTIVE Issu:05-10-06
days Sig: TAKE ONE TABLET BY MOUTH Refills: 3 Last:05-10-06
ONE TIME EACH DAY FOR 3 DAYS; THEN Expr:05-11-07
TAKE ONE TABLET TWICE A DAY FOR PAIN
7) ZOLMITRIPTAN 5MG TAB Qty: 3 for 30 days ACTIVE Issu:12-19-05
Sig: TAKE ONE-HALF TABLET BY MOUTH AS Refills: 1 Last:05-08-06
NEEDED FOR MIGRAINES MAY REPEAT Expr:12-20-06
DOSE IN 2 HOURS; NO MORE THAN 2
TABLETS IN ANY 24 HOUR PERIOD
Allergies: NKDA
Family History
Mother – MI; history of heart problems on maternal side
Father – Stroke
Brother – IDDM; testicular lymphoma
Social History:
JR was born in Rockford; IL. His highest level of education is two years of college. His
religious affiliation is Christian; Lutheran. He has been married to his wife for 11 years. He
has one daughter who is 22 years old. He has three step grandchildren. He lives with his
wife in High Springs. He served in the army prior to his motorcycle accident; after which he
was honorably discharged. After his time in the military he was a construction site
supervisor. Since 1997; he has been on disability due to back pain. His hobbies include
watching NASCAR and motorcycles.
Client is 27 year old single female, A/O x3 self directing Wt: 100-150 lbs. Ht: 5’4” vision, speech, and hearing ok.
Due to a spinal cord injury/quad client requires total care in all ADL’s and IADLs. Client resides in single family
home with 50 year old mother, 52 year old father, 29 year old sister and a dog and 2 cats. Both parents are the
primary caregivers and have joint guardianship. Client’s aunt is the secondary guardian. Client’s sister teaches
and works during the summer months. Per client and mom, sister is not reliable but does assist in some of the
client’s care. Client’s mom is a nurse works 3dpw (varies) 11a-11p shifts (leaves 10:15p and returns home
anywhere between 12:30a-3:00a in addition to working a lot of overtime. Dad is an accountant and works monfri;
up at 5:30a and out of the house by 6:30a-home around 5:00p. Dad is also gone a lot in the evenings with
various social activities. Client transfers with stand pivot and one assist. Non ambulatory uses electric w/c (client
operates herself) for mobility. Client needs to be wheeled in the manual wheelchair. Client is a professional and
works full-time days and part-time evenings. Regular Mon-Fri hours are 8:30a-4:30p however actual hours vary
so much due to overtime, work schedules and mandatory continuing education classes. Client has a private w/c lift
van for medical appt., work and social transportation. Client very well aware that transportation is not a medical
task and is not part of the care plan and that the attendant is not allowed to drive/transport. Client pays the people
who drive the van privately. Client needs to have the attendant with her during all work hours since client requires
total assistance with everything; taking off coat, feeding, toileting (st cath every2-4 hrs), stands client during
breaks taking notes etc... Client goes to hospital every 3 months to have her Baclofen pump changed. Parents pick
up/oversees medication administration. Client needs to be fed. Client’s bathroom is w/c accessible with roll in
shower. Landline phone in client’s bedroom is the only one client is able to use. Client can push buttons to dial
out using speaker phone. Client needs help with her cell phone. Client left alone for short periods of time a couple
hours at a time with no apparent problems. House is all on one level so it is easy for client to get around with
power w/c going out the front door with a small ramp incline to get in/out. Client needs help with opening the
door. Washer/dryer off kitchen; electric stove, microwave. Client handles own finances on the computer. Client
able to push keyboard buttons. Parents both have POA and assist client as needed. Parents continue to be
responsible for major grocery shopping, laundry, meals, cath care/bowel regime and all care during non-service
hours. Parents provide all night care. Client has to be turned and positioned and toilet needs attended 2-3x per
night. All family members have keys to the house. CDPAP assistants assist with all AM/PM personal care
(bathing, shampoo, dressing and undressing), meds, meals (must be fed), catheterization/bowel regime
ROM/exercises, minor groceries, personal laundry and household chores.